subsys: enable Zigbee R22 behavior by default (#123)
nrfconnect/ncs-zigbee: docs/zboss/certification.rst

Nordic Semiconductor provides the Zigbee Compliant Platform.
You can use this platform as the building block for your Zigbee Certified Product, which is conformant with the ZCL and BDB standard.

.. _zboss_certification_r22_mode:

R22 behavior mode for Zigbee 3.0 product certification
******************************************************

> 

Reviewer: need an intro (Can't leave a note only) 
```suggestion

This page explains why Zigbee 3.0 products built on the Zigbee PRO R23 and R23.2 platforms must run the core stack in R22 behavior mode during certification, and how the |addon| applies this mode by default.

```

.. include:: /includes/zigbee_r22_certification_note.txt

CSA certification policy for Zigbee 3.0 products on R23 platforms
=================================================================

The Zigbee PRO R23 and R23.2 platform in the |addon| is certified in native R23 mode.
MAC-layer certification does not depend on the R22 or R23 runtime mode.

> For **Zigbee 3.0 product certification**, CSA requires the R23 core to run in **R22 behavior mode**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Zigbee 3.0 product certification, CSA requires the R23 core to run in R22 behavior mode.
```

As of late 2025, the PRO Core TSG determined that Zigbee 3.0 devices based on the R23 stack must operate the core in R22 mode (originally defined for Test Harness use in the R23 Platform Test Specification).
The same requirement applies to both R23 and R23.2 specification versions.

R22 behavior mode is therefore the default in the |addon|.

> The add-on applies it automatically through the **Zigbee PRO core runtime behavior** Kconfig choice (``CONFIG_ZIGBEE_PRO_CORE_BEHAVIOR_R22``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The add-on applies it automatically through the Zigbee PRO core runtime behavior Kconfig choice (``CONFIG_ZIGBEE_PRO_CORE_BEHAVIOR_R22``).
```

See :ref:`zigbee_ug_r22_behavior` for configuration details.

> When certifying a Zigbee 3.0 product, declare **R23.2** as the core version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When certifying a Zigbee 3.0 product, declare R23.2 as the core version.
```

> The certification procedure and test set are unchanged; only the application must run in R22 mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The certification procedure and test set are unchanged.
Only the application must run in R22 mode.
```

R22 mode and full Zigbee PRO R22 conformance
============================================

> R22 behavior mode on ZBOSS 4.x/5.x does not guarantee full conformance to the Zigbee PRO Core R22 specification, but it satisfies CSA requirements for Zigbee 3.0 device certification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On ZBOSS 4.x and 5.x, R22 behavior mode satisfies CSA requirements for Zigbee 3.0 device certification, but does not provide full conformance to the Zigbee PRO Core R22 specification.
```

> Known deviations from the Zigbee PRO Core R22 specification in R22 behavior mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
R22 behavior mode has the following known deviations from the Zigbee PRO Core R22 specification:
```

> * The APS fragmentation window is always set to 1 (R22 allows larger values).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The APS fragmentation window is always set to 1, while R22 allows larger values.
```

> * Automatic PAN ID conflict resolution is not performed; the application is notified when a conflict is detected (R22 requires automatic resolution).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Automatic PAN ID conflict resolution is not performed. 
  The application is notified when a conflict is detected (R22 requires automatic resolution).
```
